---
layout: post

title: Open Data
subtitle: Open data to create value
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/open-data.jfif
cover-img: /assets/img/open-data-2.jfif

tags: [Open Data, Data Science, Machine Learning]

comments: true

pinned: true
published: false
---

**In a world where information is becoming increasingly accessible, Open Data has become essential and is projected to grow exponentially. Many sectors can benefit from this valuable data, particularly in the field of local banking. These banks frequently handle issues related to society, economics, and demographics, such as risk, credit, and investment, which are precisely the themes that Open Data mainly focuses on. This is why the DataLab Group has chosen to utilize this thriving new source of information.**

# Open Data Introduction

Open Data refers to freely accessible and usable data, made available by the government ([data.gouv](https://www.data.gouv.fr/fr/), Ministries) or public organizations such as INSEE and OpenDataSoft. Any user can access and reuse this data as they wish, without restriction. This data helps improve collaboration, participation, and social innovation. The opening of data to the general public is part of a global Open Source movement, particularly in the digital sector. The development of Open Data has also been facilitated by the adoption of various laws over the past twenty years:

* The CADA law allows anyone who requests it to access administrative documents. It was updated in 2005 to allow their reuse as well.
* In December 2015, the Valter law established the principle of free public data.
* At the end of 2016, the Lemaire law required public administrations to publish their main documents and data online.
* In 2019, the European Commission required member states to publish reusable data from their public sector and listed a set of data sets that must be accessible by June 2024, such as meteorological data.
* In early 2021, Prime Minister Jean Castex asked public institutions to accelerate the opening of their data.

In 2010, the French government created its Open Data platform, [data.gouv](https://www.data.gouv.fr/fr/), which is maintained by [Etalab](https://www.etalab.gouv.fr/). To develop this platform, Etalab relies on the International Open Data Charter, published in 2013, which sets out seven criteria for publishing information. Data must be:
1. Raw
2. Fresh
3. Accessible (at a reasonable cost)
4. Non-discriminatory in their uses
5. Machine-readable
6. In an open format
7. Subject to an open license

# Challenges and Opportunities for the DataLab Group

Crédit Agricole Group, as the 2nd largest French banking group, is a major player in the French economy. It is a highly influential and widespread banking group across the national territory, thanks to its network of agencies (No. 1 in France with 7400 agencies) and covering all banking professions and services (banking, savings, insurance, asset management, etc.). The group has every interest in exploiting Open Source data, which provides information of different types (finance, transport, culture, environment, etc.) at different spatial scales (iris, municipalities, departments, etc.).

In this context, the DataLab Group has conducted research to retrieve and utilize this data for various use cases. This data can be used to enrich the internal data held by the group, providing a better understanding of the geographical context of both its professional and individual clients. Additionally, it can be used to create new projects that rely entirely on Open Data for purposes such as energy transition, climate risk detection, and identifying areas of attraction.

However, in order to fully harness the potential of Open Data, the DataLab Group must ensure that it utilizes the data in the most effective way possible. As defined by Open Data, users are free to utilize the data as they see fit. Therefore, starting with raw data, it is possible to modify and combine the information to make it as relevant as possible. Through the creation of indicators, different sources can be merged and aggregated to generate new and even unprecedented information. This is the true value of Open Data, but it must be used with care and precision.

# Open Data Governance

When utilizing data retrieved online, it is crucial to pay close attention to data quality, starting with source selection. The first step when retrieving freely accessible data is to check the license and issuing source to ensure the reliability of the information. It is always advisable to prioritize official sources. Additionally, it is necessary to confirm that the data provides the expected geographical coverage. For instance, if information is needed on all French departments, it should be verified if the expected amount of data is present. Finally, another indicator of source quality is the update frequency. A database must be regularly refreshed to remain exploitable.

Next, once the source is selected, various checks must be carried out upon receipt:

* Check that all expected columns are present
* Check missing values
* Pay particular attention to extreme values
* Verify that geocoded data is located in the French territory
* Etc.

Finally, if doubts remain about the veracity of the content, in cases where the geographical location of an element is retrieved, you can check their actual presence on a sample by projecting the data onto a satellite map, for example. However, there are instances where the information is simply not verifiable, such as the number of births in a municipality. In such cases, the source of the information is the only guarantee of the truth.

Once these various steps have been validated, it is possible to create indicators and combine different sources to extract as much information as possible from this high-value data. And of course, if we talk about "extracting as much information as possible," attention must be paid to how it is presented, which is a crucial step. There are various Data Visualization methods, including creating Dashboards.

# Conclusion

Open Data is undoubtedly an extremely rich source of information, but it must be exploited properly. It is a rapidly growing sector, and both Crédit Agricole and the DataLab Group understand this and have a significant interest in continuing to utilize this data, especially considering the significant economic, energy, and social stakes involved. Undoubtedly, there will be many more projects to be carried out around this data, with the emergence of new use cases and new sources. For instance, Météo France is expected to publish their data by early 2024, including tabular data from various meteorological stations and possibly satellite images of the French territory, which could provide valuable information.
