---
layout: post

title: Credit Agricole Organizes IMAgine Days with Innovation Makers alliance
subtitle: DataLab Groupe participated to IMAgine Days
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/ima-thumbnail.png
cover-img: /assets/img/ima-background.png

tags: [IMA, Imagine Days, Innovation Makers Alliance, Generative AI, ChatGPT, LLMOps]

comments: true

pinned: true
---


**The Innovation Makers Alliance, in collaboration with Credit Agricole, hosted a day focused on innovation and AI. The event, which drew attendees from a variety of industries, conducted workshops that leveraged collective intelligence to generate ideas about Generative AI in the business world.**

The DataLab Groupe played a significant role in the event, not only participating but also hosting, providing talks about its history and developments. As generative AI is currently a major technological focus, it now constitutes a significant part of what the DataLab Group undertakes.

The event extended beyond mere talks, also incorporating workshops where participants could share their experiences with these technologies and their visions for the future.

During this occasion, the DataLab Group showcased their latest accomplishments. Initially, they formed a multidisciplinary and cross-entity working group. This provided a platform for individuals across Credit Agricole to discuss their applications of generative AI. A key outcome produced by this group was a collection of recommendations, outlining priority use cases and stipulating the conditions for experimentation, with a particular emphasis on security, limitations, and risks.

The working group also served as an excellent catalyst for the emergence of use cases, and the DataLab Groupe contributed to the realization of pilot projects aiming to apply generative AI responsibly in the corporate world. This involved testing ChatGPT on prioritized use cases and trialing open-source models when data privacy restrictions prevented the use of proprietary models.

In this context, the DataLab Groupe continued to conduct R&D, striving to benchmark models on real-life use cases and attempting to employ smaller models to enhance scalability and reduce the projects' footprint. They also integrated new industrialization strategies, including LLMOps, to make these solutions commercially viable.

